Add RFC for role change process (#248)
cloudfoundry/community: toc/rfc/rfc-draft-role-change-process.md

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Role Change Process
- Start Date: 2022-04-13
- Author(s): @gerg
- Status: Draft <!-- Acceptable values: Draft, Approved, On Hold, Superseded -->
- RFC Pull Request: (fill in with PR link after you submit it)

## Summary

Define the process for granting or revoking roles.

## Problem

There are currently
[descriptions](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md)
for the criteria necessary to become a Contributor or Approver. It is not
currently defined how people apply for or are granted these roles. This makes it
difficult for community members to know how to apply for a role promotion and
difficult for Working Group leadership to manage Contributor and Approver
candidates.

In addition, there is no defined process for removing people from Contributor or
Approver roles if they are no longer interested in participating at that level.

## Proposal

### Promotion to Contributor

- When a person meets the criteria to be a Contributor as defined in
[ROLES.md](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md),
they may submit a PR adding themselves to the organization in

> [cloudfoundry.yml](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/org/cloudfoundry.yml).

Reviewer: the working group charter should be the source of truth when it comes to roles (Approver and above).

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/16783a0d52e15c523b7f05e0d8eab200e08705a1

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Role Change Process
- Start Date: 2022-04-13
- Author(s): @gerg
- Status: Draft <!-- Acceptable values: Draft, Approved, On Hold, Superseded -->
- RFC Pull Request: (fill in with PR link after you submit it)

## Summary

Define the process for granting or revoking roles.

## Problem

There are currently
[descriptions](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md)
for the criteria necessary to become a Contributor or Approver. It is not
currently defined how people apply for or are granted these roles. This makes it
difficult for community members to know how to apply for a role promotion and
difficult for Working Group leadership to manage Contributor and Approver
candidates.

In addition, there is no defined process for removing people from Contributor or
Approver roles if they are no longer interested in participating at that level.

## Proposal

> ### Promotion to Contributor

Reviewer 2: Overlaps to a good extend https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/rfc/rfc-0002-github-members.md

Author: I view this as an extension of that RFC. I'm primarily interested in the process through which the promotion is reviewed and accepted.

That said, maybe there is more I can do to integrate the two RFCs.

Author: For instance, I think this RFC currently conflicts with this paragraph:

> As removing a member from the `cloudfoundry` GitHub org may have unintended consequences across the organization, the TOC is the body required to approve those removals.
Proposals to remove a member should also be submitted via PR, and the submitter should tag the PR with `toc` and should mention `@cloudfoundry/toc` to make the TOC aware of the request.
The TOC will then consult any working groups that may be affected by the removal of this member and use its usual decision process to approve or reject the removal.

Reviewer 2: I don't remember the exact reason why removing a member from the cloudfoundry org might have unintended consequences. Can't really imaging for a contributor and I agree that TOC should not be required here.

Maybe this discussion is caused by using a low level technical document (cloudfoundry.yml) for maintaining a higher level concept (contributor role).  Could be solved by having a separate contributor document that gets (eventually automated) translated into cloudfoundry.yml similar to the WG charters. Allows e.g. to ensure that all approvers are members of the cloudfoundry org and makes it easier for new contributors to file a PR: cloudfoundry.yml has currently 7k lines and ~650 org members.

- When a person meets the criteria to be a Contributor as defined in
[ROLES.md](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md),
they may submit a PR adding themselves to the organization in
[cloudfoundry.yml](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/org/cloudfoundry.yml).

- Two existing Contributors or Approvers must attest that they meet the criteria
  by reviewing the PR.

- An existing Contributor or Approver may submit the promotion request on behalf of someone else, but they
  may not serve as a reviewer.

- Any Working Group Lead may merge the PR after it has been reviewed.

- TOC members may bypass the review process and merge the PR at their
  discretion.

### Promotion to Approver

- When a person meets the criteria to be an Approver for a Working Group as defined in
[ROLES.md](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md),
they may submit a PR adding themselves to the appropriate Working Group in

> [cloudfoundry.yml](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/org/cloudfoundry.yml).

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/994b3a52a9b76e79083a3bf91969dae29a47442a

- Two existing Approvers for that Working Group must attest that they meet the criteria
  by reviewing the PR.

- For Working Groups with fewer than 4 approvers, a single Approver review is
  sufficient.

- An existing Approver may submit the promotion request on behalf of someone else, but they
  may not serve as a reviewer.

- A Working Group Lead for that Working Group may merge the PR after it has been

>   reviewed.

Reviewer 3: Can you clarify what you mean by "may" here? I'm not sure which of these two options are you implying...

1.  A WG lead _may_ merge it or _may_ choose not to merge it for some reason?
OR
2. That a WG lead _may_ merge the PR or that someone else _may_ do it?

I am onboard with option 1 and not option 2.

Author: Maybe something like:
> A Working Group Lead for that Working Group _will_ merge or close the PR based on the results of the review and their discretion.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/38cd8bd0073be3f8bdaf2757451f098235afbc8e

- TOC members may bypass the review process and merge the PR at their
  discretion.

### Revoking Contributor Role

- People with the Contributor role may submit a PR to revoke their role by
  removing the appropriate entry from
  [cloudfoundry.yml](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/org/cloudfoundry.yml).

- An existing Contributor or Approver may submit the revocation request on
  behalf of someone else, but the person whose role is being revoked must be

>   given a week to refute the revocation.

Reviewer 4: Maybe these should be bumped to two weeks to better handle someone being away on vacation, leave, etc.

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/86ce2597a1d6e299461f640e6ba78a9c63f683dc

- Any Working Group Lead may merge the PR, without review.

> - TOC members may merge the PR at their discretion.

Reviewer 3: What is the difference between how WG leads and toc members should act here? These sound like the same thing written two different ways? Or is there a distinction?

Author: I think the distinction I'm gesturing towards that I haven't figured out how to codify is something like:
- Working Group Leads are obligated to merge the role change requests (or reject the request, as appropriate)
- TOC members can use their ultimate authority to intervene in special circumstances, however this is not the expected workflow

Author: For this particular case, it looks like the TOC might need to be involved based on https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/rfc/rfc-0002-github-members.md.

Not sure if that is desirable/scalable. Especially if we want to start doing a better job removing lapsed contributors.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/38cd8bd0073be3f8bdaf2757451f098235afbc8e

### Revoking Approver Role

> - People with an Approver role may submit a PR to revoke their role by removing
>   the appropriate entry from
>   [cloudfoundry.yml](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/org/cloudfoundry.yml).

Reviewer 3: Same as above

```suggestion
- People with an Approver role may submit a PR to revoke their role by removing
  the appropriate entry from the yaml definition in their Working Group's charter.
```

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/248/commits/994b3a52a9b76e79083a3bf91969dae29a47442a
